Personal Finance Tracker

This document outlines the system and software requirements needed to run the Personal Finance Tracker application.

Project Requirements
To successfully run the Personal-Finance-Tracker application, your system must meet the following hardware and software requirements.

1. Software Requirements
Operating System: The application is a desktop GUI program and requires a graphical operating system. It has been tested and is compatible with:
Windows 10 / 11
macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or newer
Modern Linux distributions with a desktop environment (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04+, Fedora 36+, Mint 21+)
Python: You must have Python installed on your system.
Required Version: Python 3.8 or newer.
Git (Optional): Required only for cloning the repository from GitHub. It is not needed to simply run the application.

2. Hardware Requirements
The application is lightweight and should run smoothly on most modern computers.
RAM: Minimum of 2 GB RAM.
Disk Space: At least 50 MB of free disk space for the application and its dependencies.
Internet Connection: An active internet connection is required for two features:
To download the Python libraries during the initial setup.
For the application to fetch real-time data from the ExchangeRate-API.

3. Python Library Dependencies
The project relies on several external Python libraries. These can be easily installed using pip, Python's package installer.
requests: For making HTTP requests to the external currency API.

pandas: For efficient data manipulation and aggregation, especially for creating the spending analysis chart.
matplotlib: For generating the data visualizations (the donut chart).

Installation
You can install all required libraries at once by navigating to the project folder in your terminal and running the following command:
pip install -r requirements.txt


Alternatively, you can install them manually:
pip install requests pandas matplotlib


4. API Key Requirement
The application's multi-currency features (the financial summary and the currency converter) depend on an external API.
Service: ExchangeRate-API
Requirement: You must obtain a free API key from their website.
The first time you run the application, it will prompt you to enter this key. The key will then be saved locally in a file named exchangerate_api_key.txt for future use.
